you
so Africa seeking is a computer for just
one period but we generally experiment
with many different queries and this is
to avoid the variance across queries
depending on the queries you use you
might make different conclusions right
so it's better to use more queries if
you use more queries then you would also
have to take an average of the average
proceeding over all these queries so how
can we do that well you can naturally
think of just doing arithmetic mean as
we always tend to to think in this way
so this would give us what's called a
mean average precision or map in this
case we take arithmetic mean of all the
average positions over set of queries or
topics but as I just mentioned in
another lecture is this good we call
that we talked about the different ways
of combining precision and recall and we
conclude that the arithmetic mean is not
as good as to make F measure for here
it's the same we can also think about
the alternative ways of aggregating the
numbers don't just automatically assume
that them it's just to take an
arithmetic mean of the average position
over these queries let's think about
what's the best way of aggregating them
if you think about different ways
naturally you would probably be able to
think about another way which is
geometrically and we call this kind of
average gmap this is another way so now
once you think about the two different
ways of doing the same thing the natural
question to ask is which one is better
so so do you use map ot map again that's
important question imagine you are again
testing a new algorithms in by comparing
it with your old algorithm in the search
engine now you test it on multiple
topics now you've got the average
precision for all these topics
now you are thinking of looking at the
overall performance you have to take
average but which which is really what
you use now first you should also think
about the question who did make a
difference can you think of scenarios
where using one of them would make a
difference that is they would give
different the rankings of those methods
and that also means depending on the way
your average or you take that and
average all these average positions you
will get different conclusions
this makes the question becomes even
more important so which one would you
use well again if you look at the
difference between these different ways
of aggregating the average position you
will realize in arithmetic to me the sum
is dominated by large values so what
does a large man value evening it means
the query is relatively easy you can
have a high priest average position
where is team a per tends to be affected
more by lower values and those are the
queries that don't have good performance
the average precision is low so if you
think about improving the search engine
for those difficult queries then T map
would be prefer I on the other hand if
you just want to have improvement over
all the kinds of queries or particular
popular queries that might be easy and
you want to make the perfect and maybe
map would be them prefer so again the
answer depends on your users your users
tasks and they are preferring their
preferences so the point that here is to
think about the multiple ways to solve
the same problem and then come hear them
and think carefully about differences
and which one makes more sense often one
of them might make sense in one
situation and another might make more
sense in a different situation so it's
important to pick out and the what
situations one is preferred
as a special case of the mean average
precision we can also think about the
case where there is precisely one realm
in the document and this happens often
for example in what's called a no item
search where you know a target page
let's say you want to find the Amazon
homepage you have one relevant document
there and you hope to find it
that's called a no item search in that
case this precise the one relevant
document or in another application like
a question answering maybe there's only
one ends are there so if you rank the
answers then your goal is rank that one
particular answer on top right so in
this case you can easily verify the
average position we basically boiled
down to reciprocal rank that is 1 over R
where R is the rank position of that a
single relevant document so that
document is ranked on the very top as
well and then it's one for reciprocal
rank if it's rented at the second then
it's 1 over 2 etc and then we can also
take a average of all these average
position or reciprocal rank over a set
of topics and that would give us
something called a mean reciprocal rank
it's a very popular value for no item
search or an arrangement problem where
you have just one rather than item now
again here you can see this R actually
is meaningful here and this R is
basically indicating how much effort a
user would have to make in order to find
that relevant document if it's ranked on
the top there's no effort that you knew
you have to make or little effort but if
it's ranked at a 100 then you actually
have to read a presumably 100 documents
in order to find it so in this sense is
also meaningful measure and the
reciprocal rank will take the reciprocal
of our instead of using our directly so
one natural question here is why not
simply using our I imagine if you
design measure to match his performance
of a ranking system when there is only
one relevant item you might have thought
about using our directory as the meshing
after all that meshes the users effort
right but think about if you take an
average of this over a large number of
topics again it would make a difference
right for one single topic using our or
using one over our wouldn't make any
difference it's the same larger R with
corresponding to a small one over all
but the difference would only show when
show up but when you have many topics so
again think about the average of mean
reciprocal rank versus average of just
our what's the difference
do you see any difference and would
would this difference change the order
of systems in our conclusion and this it
turns out that there is actually a big
difference and if you think about it if
you want to think about it and then
yourself and then post the video
basically the difference is if you take
a sum of our directory then again will
be dominated by large values of R so
what are those matters those are
basically large values that indicate
that lowly ranked results that means the
relevant item is ranked the very low
down on the list and the son the oldest
also the average would be then dominated
by where those relevant documents are
ranked in in in the lower portion of the
ranked list but from a user's
perspective we care more about the
highly ranked documents so by taking
this transformation by using reciprocal
rank here we emphasize more on the
difference on the top and I think about
the difference between one and two it
will make a big difference in one
overall but think about the 100 and 100
away and one the one make much
difference if you use this but if you
use this there will be a beautiful
in 100 and let's say 1000 right so this
is not the desirable on the other hand
and 1/2 won't make much difference so
this is yet another case where there may
be multiple choices of doing the same
thing and then you need to figure out
that which one makes more sense so to
summarize we feel that the precision
recall curve can characterize the
overall accuracy of a ranked list and we
emphasize that the actual utility of a
ranking list depends on how many
top-ranked results a user would actually
examine some users will examine more
than others an average presuming is the
standard measure for comparing two
ranking methods it combines position and
recall and it's sensitive to the rank of
every read in the document
you